Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1Purpose 2Design stage 3Information systems 4See also 5References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Enterprise information system 10 languages العربية Čeština Deutsch Español فارسی Italiano 日本語 Português Русский Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of information system An Enterprise Information System (EIS) is any kind of information system which improves the functions of enterprise business processes by integration. This means typically offering high quality of service, dealing with large volumes of data and capable of supporting some large and possibly complex organization or enterprise. An EIS must be able to be used by all parts and all levels of an enterprise.[1] The word enterprise can have various connotations. Frequently the term is used only to refer to very large organizations such as multi-national companies or public-sector organizations. However, the term may be used to mean virtually anything, by virtue of it having become a corporate-speak buzzword.[citation needed] Purpose[edit] Enterprise information systems provide a technology platform that enables organizations to integrate and coordinate their business processes on a robust foundation. An EIS is currently used in conjunction with customer relationship management and supply chain management to automate business processes.[1] An enterprise information system provides a single system that is central to the organization that ensures information can be shared across all functional levels and management hierarchies. An EIS can be used to increase business productivity and reduce service cycles, product development cycles and marketing life cycles.[1] It may be used to amalgamate existing applications. Other outcomes include higher operational efficiency and cost savings.[1] Financial value is not usually a direct outcome from the implementation of an enterprise information system.[2] Design stage[edit] At the design stage the main characteristic of EIS efficiency evaluation is the probability of timely delivery of various messages such as command, service, etc.[3] Information systems[edit] Main article: Information systems Enterprise systems create a standard data structure and are invaluable in eliminating the problem of information fragmentation caused by multiple information systems within an organization. An EIS differentiates itself from legacy systems in that it is self-transactional, self-helping and adaptable to general and specialist conditions.[1] Unlike an enterprise information system, legacy systems are limited to department-wide communications.[2] A typical enterprise information system would be housed in one or more data centers, would run enterprise software, and could include applications that typically cross organizational borders such as content management systems. See also[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Enterprise information systems. Business portal Executive information system Management information system Enterprise planning systems Enterprise software References[edit] ^ a b c d e Olson, David L.; Subodh Kesharwani (2010). Enterprise Information Systems: Contemporary Trends and Issues. World Scientific. pp. 2, 13–16. ISBN 978-9814273169. Retrieved 20 August 2013. ^ a b Information Resources Management Association (2010). Enterprise Information Systems: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools and Applications. Idea Group Inc. pp. 38, 43. ISBN 978-1616928537. Retrieved 20 August 2013. ^ Kalinin I.V.; Maharevs E.; Muravyeva-Vitkovskaya L.A. (2015). "Efficiency evaluation of enterprise information systems with nonuniform load" [Efficiency Evaluation of Enterprise Information Systems with Non-uniform Load]. Scientific and Technical Journal of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics (in Russian). 15 (5): 863–868. doi:10.17586/2226-1494-2015-15-5-863-868. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Enterprise_information_system&oldid=1082824312" Categories: Data management Enterprise architecture Enterprise modelling Website management Hidden categories: CS1 Russian-language sources (ru) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016 Commons category link is on Wikidata This page was last edited on 15 April 2022, at 09:17 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width
